# Zerospace
This application was created for our Software Engineering semester project.
* Zerospace is hosted on Amazon EC2
* Built with Ruby on Rails with a React frontend
* Nginx and PostgreSQL used for webserver and database

## Abstract

Our proposal is to create a social media and blogging platform with a heavy focus on empowering and encouraging user privacy. This platform will have two distinct sections: one for journaling and blogging, and another for public forum engagement. While connected to each other, the amount of interaction between these two sections will be entirely user-controlled. Users will be able to maintain anything from a personal journal, completely cut off from other users, to a small circle of friends, to a fully public blog, all while engaging as much or as little as they like in public discussions; all on a single platform.

To accomplish this, we are developing a robust privacy system, focused on giving users granular control over who can and cannot view and respond to their posts. Users will have similar control over their profiles, making as much or as little information as they like public (no information is required to be shared). While giving users great control, we also are keeping the system intuitive and simple, avoiding confusing submenus and verbiage. We also maintain privacy by minimizing the ways in which people can get information about other users such as avoiding public user searches.

## Description

We intend to address the increasingly irresponsible handling of personal information by major social media companies. From enabling the spread of personally targeted misinformation campaigns, to enabling bad actors to harass and threaten other users with little to no repercussions, privacy and online safety have become a major issue in modern online life. Protecting personal details has become an afterthought for these companies, in some cases even conflicting with their business model. With these issues in mind, we believe that the best way to address these problems is to provide a way for people to engage online with opt-out privacy rather than opt-in.

We propose ZeroSpace: a website that protects user privacy by default, from the point of first login. A user visiting ZeroSpace is first invited to create an account, requiring only an email address and a password. Once the account has been created and the user has logged in, ZeroSpace directs them to their profile. The user has the ability to fill in as much personal information as they desire (none is required). Note that all information in the profile is private by default, and the user will be able to publicize as much or as little of that information as they desire. Specifically, the user will be able to specify which individuals or groups of people have access to certain information. For example, a user might want to share a post about their birthday with their family but not their coworker, and this could be accomplished with a simple setting change in ZeroSpace. Further, the interface design is simple and clear with no complicated sub menus and confusing conditionals.

The user has the option to make connections with other users on ZeroSpace. Rather than allowing a general search, the user enters the username or email of the person they wish to connect with. Zerospace will then allow that person to accept or deny the request, but the user is given no feedback unless the person accepts the request, not even confirmation of whether the username is even registered. Once a connection is accepted, a user can group them for their convenience (i.e. “friends”, “work”, “acquaintances”, “family”).

There are two ways for users to engage online through ZeroSpace. The first is a blogging/journaling platform, allowing users to post updates on their lives, musings, etc. In this case, when our user makes a post, they will have the option to choose who can view it. By default, a user’s post is private, viewable only to themselves. From there, the user will then be able to decide how visible to make their content, following closely in line with the idea of making ZeroSpace a platform that protects privacy above all else. The user has a great degree of control over who can view their post. They may select all their connections, one or more subgroups, individuals, or they can make the post public. At any time users may revisit their posts and adjust who can view them. Additionally, the user has the option to make all their posts private with the click of a button (available in their profile).

The other way for users to engage through ZeroSpace is the public forums. After logging in the user can navigate to the public forum area of ZeroSpace. ZeroSpace has two forums set up by default: a General forum and a Support forum. Users are able to create forums associated with their username (generated by default, but changeable by the user). User-created forums default to private, similarly to user posts, and can be made available to user connections, individuals, or the public in the same fashion. Other users can only view and interact with default forums, public forums, their own forums, or forums that they have been given access to.

In addition to privacy ZeroSpace is focused on giving users the tools they need to deal with any harassment they encounter. While using the blogging functionality, privacy settings are usually sufficient to handle a problem (simply removing a user as a connection will prevent them from accessing and responding to any posts). Users will have clear and direct access to their privacy settings, not having to work through the service provider to make these types of changes. On the forums, users will have the ability to block other users directly. Blocked users won’t be able to respond to posts written by the user that blocked them, and won’t be able to view forums belonging to that user either. Additionally, when someone blocks a user, they won’t see any content from the blocked user.

Our application focuses on privacy to an extent unrivaled by any current social media platform. By turning privacy into an opt-out process and focusing on harassment mitigation from the ground up, we are creating an entirely new paradigm for social media. Our application does lack certain features the people may have become accustomed to on other platforms, such as location-based services. However, our position is that these services serve only to facilitate privacy breaches and are anathema to the design of our platform. We believe that users of ZeroSpace value the privacy features in the ZeroSpace application over the various features that ZeroSpace sacrifices. ZeroSpace will give disgruntled users of other various social media platforms what they have been looking for; a secure, privacy-driven platform to share their ideas.
